doc/task_list.md, before:

# Task list 

- Development
    - [x] Return codes mirror rules validity
    - [ ] Make `rules_d` a uniform data structure holding context
    - [x] Get rid of the `Context` class (?) 
    - [ ] Get rid of the `Output` class
    - [x] Centralize exceptions (?)
    - [ ] Handle incorrect syntax or missing rules
    - [ ] Add actions
        - [ ] Match action
        - [ ] Count action
    - [ ] Find a pretty way to store and output errors
    - [ ] Output pretty summaries (possible verbosity levels)
    - [ ] Add logging
    - [ ] Support adding actions/filters from other namespaces
- Unit tests
    - Add: 
        - [x] `test_engine.py`
        - [ ] `test_exists.py` (currently empty)
        - [ ] `test_cli.py`
    - [ ] Test `rules_d` content and fields at multiple steps
- Integration tests
    - [ ] Find a way to list integration tests in pytest or other
    - [ ] Add cases
        - [ ] DSE
            - [ ] Pass (single file)
            - [ ] Fail (missing predictions)
            - [ ] Pass (many files, including predictions)
        - [ ] D3M TA1
            - [ ] Pass (all files)
            - [ ] Fail (missing file)
        - [ ] Non-existing rules (error message)
- CLI
    - [x] Basic callable CLI
    - [ ] Enable setting directory target
    - [ ] Enable just linting
    - [ ] Enable setting verbosity
- Packaging
    - [ ] Docker file 
    - [ ] `setup.cfg`
- Documentation
    - [ ] Make a diagram of the 3 steps of the rbv
    - [ ] Document how to add filter or action rules
    - [ ] Make a usage README
    - [ ] Add docstrings

Commit message:

Automatic pre-commit checks
* formatting with black
* code quality with flake8, parameters in setup.cfg

doc/task_list.md, after:

# Task list 

- Development
    - [x] Return codes mirror rules validity
    - [ ] Make `rules_d` a uniform data structure holding context
    - [x] Get rid of the `Context` class (?) 
    - [ ] Get rid of the `Output` class
    - [x] Centralize exceptions (?)
    - [ ] Handle incorrect syntax or missing rules
    - [ ] Add actions
        - [ ] Match action
        - [ ] Count action
    - [ ] Find a pretty way to store and output errors
    - [ ] Output pretty summaries (possible verbosity levels)
    - [ ] Add logging
    - [ ] Support adding actions/filters from other namespaces
- Unit tests
    - Add: 
        - [x] `test_engine.py`
        - [ ] `test_exists.py` (currently empty)
        - [ ] `test_cli.py`
    - [ ] Test `rules_d` content and fields at multiple steps
- Integration tests
    - [ ] Find a way to list integration tests in pytest or other
    - [ ] Add cases
        - [ ] DSE
            - [ ] Pass (single file)
            - [ ] Fail (missing predictions)
            - [ ] Pass (many files, including predictions)
        - [ ] D3M TA1
            - [ ] Pass (all files)
            - [ ] Fail (missing file)
        - [ ] Non-existing rules (error message)
- CLI
    - [x] Basic callable CLI
    - [ ] Enable setting directory target
    - [ ] Enable just linting
    - [ ] Enable setting verbosity
- Packaging
    - [ ] Docker file 
    - [x] `setup.cfg`
- Documentation
    - [ ] Make a diagram of the 3 steps of the rbv
    - [ ] Document how to add filter or action rules
    - [ ] Make a usage README
    - [ ] Add docstrings 
 - CI 
    - [x] Make format and quality checks automatic on each commit
